#5. Web Basics Assignment and Reflection

###Part 1: Based on the resources you looked at, describe the terms you learned about.

**Browser:** A browser is a program that interprets data it finds on the internet. Most Browsers (Chrome, IE, Mozilla, etc) use a certain set of standards so that they interpret things the same way. Not all browsers do this though, as there is no enforcement. Someone could potentially create a browser that read **i** as Bold instead of itallics, or **body** as **/html**... If they really wanted to. <br>
**DNS:** Domain Name Server. A DNS will resolve Second Level Domains to an IP Address using a nameserver. Websites exist on IP addresses like 34.214.111.43 - this is hard to remember, so the DNS server would resolve a Second Level Domain (the GOOGLE in GOOGLE.COM) to a particular IP.<br>
**Domain:** There are Top Level Domains, and Second Level Domains. Top level domains are the things we see at the end of a domain name - .com, .org, .net, .ly, .gov, etc. While originally there were restrictions on what  Top Level Domain could be used for, this is no longer the case - outisde of .gov and .mil. Second Level Domains are the text before the TLDs - they're what we commonly call the website itself. Google(.com) is a SLD, devbootcamp(.com) is a second level domain. <br>
**Internet:** The internet is a long data stream. Servers connect directly to the internet to speak with it. Clients will connect to the Servers which will then seek out the information that the client has asked for. It is possible to set yourself up as a server as well using protocols like Apache or IIS.<br>
**IP address:** An IP address is the representation of a computers physical location. Every computer has it's own internal and external IP address. External is what the world sees when they speak to you (This is normally the IP for the Router that you are behind), and Internal is what you see within your own network. IPs are set as a range of x.x.x.x where each X can be 1-255. Some values are reserved - for example, 127.0.0.1 usually refers to the localhost. 192.168.x.x or 10.x.x.x are usually IPs given as part of an Internal Network. There can be any number of 192.168.x.x IPs, so long as they are on different networks. <br>
**Web app:** A Web App is a non-static website. Websites that allow user generated content, searching, or displaying interactive information are all considered Web Apps. If your website talks to a database, it's like a WebApp. If it takes Credit Card information to make purchases, it's a Web App. Websites are much simpler - they just display information. If I ran a sandwich shop that did not take online orders - and just showed sandwiches and pricse - that would be a website. Most of the major sites we use today at all Web Apps. <br>
**Web server:** A Web Server is a machine connected to the internet that stores code for websites. When a client wants to view a certain website, their IP will get the information from that Web Server, and send it back to the client. As mentioned in IP Addresses above, a web server's address is an IP address, but a DNS Server will give that site a more easily recognizable name.<br>
**Website:** A static website - something that does not take user input. A sandwich shop that has a website that only shows their menu would be an example of this. <br>
**World wide web:** Different from the 'internet' itself, the world wide web is a name given to all of the websites contained within the internet.<br>

After you have updated your website, when a user returns to your site, the Web Server will send out the new data to the client's ISP, who will then display it to the Client. Website updates are nearly instantaneous when called on, unlike DNS updates.

###Part 2: Reflection
From the reading in this section, I got a better understanding of how DNS works, and the difference between webname registrars and actual web servers. DNS resolves Second Level Domains to the IP Address of actual Web Servers. Once your computer, or a nameserver, has resolved that IP address, it will stick around for a set period of time - the Time To Live. During this time, returning to that Domain will immediately pull up the stored IP. If, while that IP is still stored, the owner of the domain changes the DNS - you won't be able to access the new site by using that domain. You would have to either know the new IP Address, wait for the TTL to expire, or flush your system's DNS. Web Registrars play in to this by selling Domain Names to users. The Registrar does not necessarily offer hosting - but they can. You can buy a Domain Name from one location, and have your website hosted somewhere else. You would then use the services of your Registrar to point your Domain Name towards your website's IP. This would be setting the DNS. 

This section challenge didn't go in to creating a website, but we did do some HTML setup with some of the earlier blog posts. I played with HTML a bit when I was much younger, and still remembered some of it. I'm sure there are plenty of best practices I don't know, but in the template provided I removed all of the **P** paragraph tags, and added two **BR** tags after each parapraph. Seemed much easier to me. I'm sure there's some reason I shouldn't do this, but I'll probably learn that soon!
